DEVELOP.md, before:

# Container-based Development

- Visualize nodes, topics, services
```
rqt_graph
```

- List all ROS topics:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ ros2 topic list
/clicked_point
/clock
/diagnostics
/drone_1/apriltag/detections
/drone_1/aruco/detections
/drone_1/aruco_opencv/detections
/drone_1/bond
/drone_1/cloud_ground
/drone_1/cloud_map
/drone_1/cloud_obstacles
/drone_1/command/motor_speed
/drone_1/depth/camera_info
/drone_1/depth/image
/drone_1/desired_odometry
/drone_1/global_costmap/costmap
/drone_1/global_costmap/costmap_raw
/drone_1/global_costmap/costmap_updates
/drone_1/global_costmap/footprint
/drone_1/global_costmap/global_costmap/transition_event
/drone_1/global_costmap/published_footprint
/drone_1/global_path
/drone_1/global_path_nodes
/drone_1/global_pose
/drone_1/goal
/drone_1/goal_node
/drone_1/goal_out
/drone_1/goal_reached
/drone_1/gps/fix
/drone_1/grid_prob_map
/drone_1/groundtruth_odometry
/drone_1/imu
/drone_1/info
/drone_1/initialpose
/drone_1/labels
/drone_1/landmark_detection
/drone_1/landmark_detections
/drone_1/landmarks
/drone_1/local_grid_empty
/drone_1/local_grid_ground
/drone_1/local_grid_obstacle
/drone_1/local_path
/drone_1/local_path_nodes
/drone_1/localization_pose
/drone_1/loop_depth
/drone_1/loop_depth/compressed
/drone_1/loop_depth/compressedDepth
/drone_1/loop_depth/theora
/drone_1/loop_depth_colored
/drone_1/loop_depth_colored/compressed
/drone_1/loop_depth_colored/compressedDepth
/drone_1/loop_depth_colored/theora
/drone_1/loop_extrinsic
/drone_1/loop_feats
/drone_1/loop_intrinsics
/drone_1/loop_pose
/drone_1/map
/drone_1/mapData
/drone_1/mapGraph
/drone_1/mapOdomCache
/drone_1/mapPath
/drone_1/map_updates
/drone_1/octomap_binary
/drone_1/octomap_empty_space
/drone_1/octomap_full
/drone_1/octomap_global_frontier_space
/drone_1/octomap_grid
/drone_1/octomap_ground
/drone_1/octomap_obstacles
/drone_1/octomap_occupied_space
/drone_1/odometry
/drone_1/odomimu
/drone_1/pathgt
/drone_1/pathimu
/drone_1/plan
/drone_1/planner_server/transition_event
/drone_1/points_aruco
/drone_1/points_msckf
/drone_1/points_sim
/drone_1/points_slam
/drone_1/posegt
/drone_1/poseimu
/drone_1/rgb/camera_info
/drone_1/rgb/image
/drone_1/rtabmap/republish_node_data
/drone_1/tag_detections
/drone_1/trackhist
/drone_1/trackhist/compressed
/drone_1/trackhist/compressedDepth
/drone_1/trackhist/theora
/drone_1/unsmoothed_plan
/drone_1/user_data_async
/initialpose
/move_base_simple/goal
/parameter_events
/rosout
/tf
/tf_static
```

- List all ROS nodes:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ ros2 node list
/drone_1/flight_interface
/drone_1/geometric_controller_node
/drone_1/global_costmap/global_costmap
/drone_1/imu_bridge
/drone_1/lifecycle_manager_navigation
/drone_1/navigator_node
/drone_1/odom_adapter
/drone_1/odometry_groundtruth_bridge
/drone_1/openvins
/drone_1/planner_server
/drone_1/rgb_bridge
/drone_1/rtabmap
/drone_1/rviz2
/drone_1/sensor_bridge
/drone_1/static_tf_base_link_to_StereoOV7251
/drone_1/static_tf_base_link_to_camera_link
/drone_1/static_tf_base_link_to_imu_sensor
/drone_1/static_tf_base_link_to_imx214
/drone_1/transform_listener_impl_57c2a061ec40
/drone_1/transform_listener_impl_596512edca60
/drone_1/transform_listener_impl_60869eb3d6c0
/drone_1/transform_listener_impl_62a14f2c1210
/ros_gz_bridge_clock
```

- List all ROS transforms:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ ros2 run tf2_tools view_frames
[INFO] [1771816989.069583032] [view_frames]: Listening to tf data for 5.0 seconds...
[INFO] [1771816994.071858850] [view_frames]: Generating graph in frames.pdf file...
[INFO] [1771816994.074868930] [view_frames]: Result:tf2_msgs.srv.FrameGraph_Response(frame_yaml="
    drone_1/odom: \n  parent: 'drone_1/map'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 32.865\n  most_recent_transform: 77.305000\n  oldest_transform: 74.384000\n  buffer_length: 2.921\n
    drone_1/camera_link/StereoOV7251: \n  parent: 'drone_1/base_link'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 10000.000\n  most_recent_transform: 0.000000\n  oldest_transform: 0.000000\n  buffer_length: 0.000\n
    drone_1/base_link: \n  parent: 'drone_1/odom'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 250.342\n  most_recent_transform: 77.216000\n  oldest_transform: 74.288000\n  buffer_length: 2.928\n
    drone_1/camera_link/IMX214: \n  parent: 'drone_1/base_link'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 10000.000\n  most_recent_transform: 0.000000\n  oldest_transform: 0.000000\n  buffer_length: 0.000\n
    drone_1/base_link/imu_sensor: \n  parent: 'drone_1/base_link'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 10000.000\n  most_recent_transform: 0.000000\n  oldest_transform: 0.000000\n  buffer_length: 0.000\n
    drone_1/camera_link: \n  parent: 'drone_1/base_link'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 10000.000\n  most_recent_transform: 0.000000\n  oldest_transform: 0.000000\n  buffer_length: 0.000\n
")

```

- Get frequency of a ROS topic:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ ros2 topic hz /drone_1/odometry
average rate: 217.910
        min: 0.001s max: 0.020s std dev: 0.00220s window: 219
average rate: 226.386
        min: 0.001s max: 0.020s std dev: 0.00173s window: 454
average rate: 229.374
        min: 0.001s max: 0.025s std dev: 0.00166s window: 690
```

- List all Gazebo topics:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ gz topic -l
/clock
/drone_1/command/motor_speed
/gazebo/resource_paths
/gui/camera/pose
/gui/currently_tracked
/gui/track
/model/drone_1/odometry
/model/drone_1/odometry_with_covariance
/model/drone_1/pose
/sensors/marker
/stats
/world/single_layer_maze_world/clock
/world/single_layer_maze_world/dynamic_pose/info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/base_link/sensor/imu_sensor/imu
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/base_link/sensor/navsat_sensor/navsat
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/IMX214/camera_info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/IMX214/image
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/StereoOV7251/camera_info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/StereoOV7251/depth_image
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/StereoOV7251/depth_image/points
/world/single_layer_maze_world/pose/info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/scene/deletion
/world/single_layer_maze_world/scene/info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/state
/world/single_layer_maze_world/stats
/world/single_layer_maze_world/light_config
/world/single_layer_maze_world/material_color
```

Commit message:

update DEVELOP.md README.md
add CITATION.cff LICENSE

fix typo

update package.xml

Add .gitignore

update initial spawn coord.

update initial spawn coord.

visual point cloud and path in rviz

add axes triad

update README

DEVELOP.md, after:

# Container-based Development

## Coordinate Frames

Following standard ROS conventions (REP-105), the project utilizes a frame tree to manage coordinate
transformations.

- **world**: The absolute, globally fixed coordinate system in the Gazebo simulation. Simulated
  ground truth positional data is expressed relative to this frame.

- **map**: A globally consistent, world-fixed frame generated by RTAB-Map. Unlike `odom`, the `map`
  frame can experience discrete, instantaneous jumps when RTAB-Map performs loop closures to correct
  accumulated long-term odometry drift. It is useful for global path planning and SLAM.

- **odom**: A local, continuous, and world-fixed frame estimated by the VIO system (OpenVINS). Its
  pose will drift over time compared to `map`, but it guarantees continuity (no discrete jumps),
  making it suitable for smooth, short-term local trajectory tracking and low-level motor control.
  By convention, this frame initializes at `(0, 0, 0)` when the VIO system starts.

- **base_link**: The robot's primary body frame, rigidly attached to the drone's center of mass or
  flight controller. All onboard sensors (IMU, cameras) publish data relative to this frame or its
  static child frames (e.g., `camera_link`).

## Useful Commands

- Visualize nodes, topics, services
```
rqt_graph
```

- List all ROS topics:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ ros2 topic list
/clicked_point
/clock
/diagnostics
/drone_1/apriltag/detections
/drone_1/aruco/detections
/drone_1/aruco_opencv/detections
/drone_1/bond
/drone_1/cloud_ground
/drone_1/cloud_map
/drone_1/cloud_obstacles
/drone_1/command/motor_speed
/drone_1/depth/camera_info
/drone_1/depth/image
/drone_1/desired_odometry
/drone_1/global_costmap/costmap
/drone_1/global_costmap/costmap_raw
/drone_1/global_costmap/costmap_updates
/drone_1/global_costmap/footprint
/drone_1/global_costmap/global_costmap/transition_event
/drone_1/global_costmap/published_footprint
/drone_1/global_path
/drone_1/global_path_nodes
/drone_1/global_pose
/drone_1/goal
/drone_1/goal_node
/drone_1/goal_out
/drone_1/goal_reached
/drone_1/gps/fix
/drone_1/grid_prob_map
/drone_1/groundtruth_odometry
/drone_1/imu
/drone_1/info
/drone_1/initialpose
/drone_1/labels
/drone_1/landmark_detection
/drone_1/landmark_detections
/drone_1/landmarks
/drone_1/local_grid_empty
/drone_1/local_grid_ground
/drone_1/local_grid_obstacle
/drone_1/local_path
/drone_1/local_path_nodes
/drone_1/localization_pose
/drone_1/loop_depth
/drone_1/loop_depth/compressed
/drone_1/loop_depth/compressedDepth
/drone_1/loop_depth/theora
/drone_1/loop_depth_colored
/drone_1/loop_depth_colored/compressed
/drone_1/loop_depth_colored/compressedDepth
/drone_1/loop_depth_colored/theora
/drone_1/loop_extrinsic
/drone_1/loop_feats
/drone_1/loop_intrinsics
/drone_1/loop_pose
/drone_1/map
/drone_1/mapData
/drone_1/mapGraph
/drone_1/mapOdomCache
/drone_1/mapPath
/drone_1/map_updates
/drone_1/octomap_binary
/drone_1/octomap_empty_space
/drone_1/octomap_full
/drone_1/octomap_global_frontier_space
/drone_1/octomap_grid
/drone_1/octomap_ground
/drone_1/octomap_obstacles
/drone_1/octomap_occupied_space
/drone_1/odometry
/drone_1/odomimu
/drone_1/pathgt
/drone_1/pathimu
/drone_1/plan
/drone_1/planner_server/transition_event
/drone_1/points_aruco
/drone_1/points_msckf
/drone_1/points_sim
/drone_1/points_slam
/drone_1/posegt
/drone_1/poseimu
/drone_1/rgb/camera_info
/drone_1/rgb/image
/drone_1/rtabmap/republish_node_data
/drone_1/tag_detections
/drone_1/trackhist
/drone_1/trackhist/compressed
/drone_1/trackhist/compressedDepth
/drone_1/trackhist/theora
/drone_1/unsmoothed_plan
/drone_1/user_data_async
/initialpose
/move_base_simple/goal
/parameter_events
/rosout
/tf
/tf_static
```

- List all ROS nodes:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ ros2 node list
/drone_1/flight_interface
/drone_1/geometric_controller_node
/drone_1/global_costmap/global_costmap
/drone_1/imu_bridge
/drone_1/lifecycle_manager_navigation
/drone_1/navigator_node
/drone_1/odom_adapter
/drone_1/odometry_groundtruth_bridge
/drone_1/openvins
/drone_1/planner_server
/drone_1/rgb_bridge
/drone_1/rtabmap
/drone_1/rviz2
/drone_1/sensor_bridge
/drone_1/static_tf_base_link_to_StereoOV7251
/drone_1/static_tf_base_link_to_camera_link
/drone_1/static_tf_base_link_to_imu_sensor
/drone_1/static_tf_base_link_to_imx214
/drone_1/transform_listener_impl_57c2a061ec40
/drone_1/transform_listener_impl_596512edca60
/drone_1/transform_listener_impl_60869eb3d6c0
/drone_1/transform_listener_impl_62a14f2c1210
/ros_gz_bridge_clock
```

- List all ROS transforms:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ ros2 run tf2_tools view_frames
[INFO] [1771816989.069583032] [view_frames]: Listening to tf data for 5.0 seconds...
[INFO] [1771816994.071858850] [view_frames]: Generating graph in frames.pdf file...
[INFO] [1771816994.074868930] [view_frames]: Result:tf2_msgs.srv.FrameGraph_Response(frame_yaml="
    drone_1/odom: \n  parent: 'drone_1/map'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 32.865\n  most_recent_transform: 77.305000\n  oldest_transform: 74.384000\n  buffer_length: 2.921\n
    drone_1/camera_link/StereoOV7251: \n  parent: 'drone_1/base_link'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 10000.000\n  most_recent_transform: 0.000000\n  oldest_transform: 0.000000\n  buffer_length: 0.000\n
    drone_1/base_link: \n  parent: 'drone_1/odom'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 250.342\n  most_recent_transform: 77.216000\n  oldest_transform: 74.288000\n  buffer_length: 2.928\n
    drone_1/camera_link/IMX214: \n  parent: 'drone_1/base_link'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 10000.000\n  most_recent_transform: 0.000000\n  oldest_transform: 0.000000\n  buffer_length: 0.000\n
    drone_1/base_link/imu_sensor: \n  parent: 'drone_1/base_link'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 10000.000\n  most_recent_transform: 0.000000\n  oldest_transform: 0.000000\n  buffer_length: 0.000\n
    drone_1/camera_link: \n  parent: 'drone_1/base_link'\n  broadcaster: 'default_authority'\n  rate: 10000.000\n  most_recent_transform: 0.000000\n  oldest_transform: 0.000000\n  buffer_length: 0.000\n
")

```

- Get frequency of a ROS topic:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ ros2 topic hz /drone_1/odometry
average rate: 217.910
        min: 0.001s max: 0.020s std dev: 0.00220s window: 219
average rate: 226.386
        min: 0.001s max: 0.020s std dev: 0.00173s window: 454
average rate: 229.374
        min: 0.001s max: 0.025s std dev: 0.00166s window: 690
```

- List all Gazebo topics:
```
~/RoadExpeditionerDrone$ gz topic -l
/clock
/drone_1/command/motor_speed
/gazebo/resource_paths
/gui/camera/pose
/gui/currently_tracked
/gui/track
/model/drone_1/odometry
/model/drone_1/odometry_with_covariance
/model/drone_1/pose
/sensors/marker
/stats
/world/single_layer_maze_world/clock
/world/single_layer_maze_world/dynamic_pose/info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/base_link/sensor/imu_sensor/imu
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/base_link/sensor/navsat_sensor/navsat
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/IMX214/camera_info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/IMX214/image
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/StereoOV7251/camera_info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/StereoOV7251/depth_image
/world/single_layer_maze_world/model/drone_1/link/camera_link/sensor/StereoOV7251/depth_image/points
/world/single_layer_maze_world/pose/info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/scene/deletion
/world/single_layer_maze_world/scene/info
/world/single_layer_maze_world/state
/world/single_layer_maze_world/stats
/world/single_layer_maze_world/light_config
/world/single_layer_maze_world/material_color
```
